# 20240214

## Scientific method \[ EASY | METHODOLOGY | RESEARCH ]

* Observation
* Constructing a hypothesis
* Carrying out experiments to test the hypothesis
* Formulating a theory

There must be no barriers to freedom of inquiry. There is no place for dogma in science. The scientist is free, and must be free to ask any question, to doubt any assertion, to seek for any evidence, to correct any errors. --- Robert Oppenheimer

**Accuracy** means the ability of a method to give a true measurement on average. **Precision** is a measure of the method’s reproducibility.

### monthly progress monitor

1. Of the results I obtained last month, which are the most important?
2. Did I deviate from lastmonth’s planning? If so,why?
3. What are my most important goals for the up coming month?
4. What do I need to do to reach these goals?Which potential hurdles might I face, and how do I overcome them?

### How to deal with setbacks

* What is your setback?
* What (in your own words) have you failed to achieve?
* Which mistakes have you made?
* Who, if anyone, has disappointed you? (your colleagues, supervisor?)
* What do you regret doing or not doing (in relation to the setback)?

## QUOTES

* I used to think anyone doing anything weird was weird. Now I know that it is the people that call others weird that are weird. --- Paul McCartney
* There is nothing difficult, it's just something you did not make it clear --- me

## HTML LEARNING

HyperText Markup Language.

```html
<html>
  <head>
    <title> Hello world </title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <!--Here is the first head -->
    <h1> MY FIRST PAGES </h1>
    <p> how are you </p>
    <h2> SECOND PARAGRAPH</h2>
    <p> I am fine, thanks </p>
  </body>
</html>
```
