
# 20240528

## PAPER

### The Atacama Cosmology Telescope: DR5 maps of 18 000 square degrees of the microwave sky from ACT 2008-2018 data

Only one of the ∼ 20 point sources (red dots) we see in ACT panels can be seen in Planck, and none of the clusters (blue dots, three visible without filtering).

#### Planck Data
Planck maps were transformed to nside=2048, to the same 0.5 arcmin resolution Plate Carree(CAR) projection. Only 100GHz, 143GHz, 217GHz are used.

#### ACT Data
The Atacama Cosmology Telescope (ACT), described in Fowler et al. (2007), observes the millimeter-wave sky from northern Chile with arc-minute resolution. Its primary goal is to make maps of the CMB temperature anisotropy and polarization at angular scales and sensitivities that complement those of the WMAP and Planck satellites. ACT is a 6 m off-axis aplanatic Gregorian telescope that scans in azimuth as the sky drifts through the field of view. There have been three generations of receivers: MBAC (Swetz et al., 2011) which observed at 150, 220, and 277 GHz; ACT’s first polarization-sensitive receiver, ACTPol (Thornton et al., 2016), which observed at 90 GHz and 150 GHz; and the Advanced ACTPol (AdvACT) receiver which is currently configured with detector arrays at 30, 40, 90, 150, and 220 GHz. ACT has had a series of data releases (DR), described below.


#### what is stacking mean in thermal SZ and kinematic SZ cluster stacking
In the context of galaxy clusters and the Sunyaev-Zel'dovich (SZ) effect, "stacking" refers to a technique used to enhance the signal-to-noise ratio of observations by combining data from multiple clusters. This method is particularly useful when the signal from individual clusters might be too weak to detect or analyze in detail.



## MEMO
what is the thing that I concern most in the experiment?

beam, noise level, IQU or EB?, nside

datasets

